main/Using_Ambit.md, before:

# Using Ambit in Python
Ambit-tautomer (which builds on [CDK](https://cdk.github.io/)), is a Java library available as a .jar file as well as a [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/) artifact. We need a way to use the Java library in Python and I've found [JPype](https://jpype.readthedocs.io/) to be able to provide what we need.
I haven't thought about fetching the dependencies using Maven itself yet, so the trick right now is to download .jar files. I'm accessing the packages inside the .jar files using JPype.
## Install JPype
Using conda:
```bash
conda install -c conda-forge jpype1
```
If this doesn't work for you, you can find other techniques at [the installation page](https://jpype.readthedocs.io/en/latest/install.html)
## Download the .jar files
Download the .jar files of [Ambit-tautomer](https://sourceforge.net/projects/ambit/files/Ambit2/AMBIT%20applications/tautomers/ambit-tautomers-2.0.0-SNAPSHOT.jar/download) and [CDK](https://github.com/cdk/cdk/releases/tag/cdk-2.3) and place them in the libs/ folder

## Launching the JVM using JPype
A more detailed user guide is available at the [official website](https://jpype.readthedocs.io/en/latest/userguide.html). For our purposes, just do the following: 

Add these imports at the top
```python
# Import the JPype module
import jpype
# Allows Java modules to be imported
import jpype.imports
# Import all standard Java types into the global scope
from jpype.types import *
```

Initialize the JVM and add the .jar files to the classpath

```python
jpype.startJVM(classpath=['libs/ambit-tautomers-2.0.0-SNAPSHOT.jar', 'libs/cdk-2.3.jar'], 
                convertStrings=False)
```

## Accessing Java packages
The native JDK packages should be accessible directly as
```python
from java.lang import System
```
But if you want to access the contents of a .jar file (e.g. the Ambit and CDK .jar files in our case), you need to access it using a method in JPype:

For instance, to import ```ambit2.core.io.FileInputState```, you will have to do
```python
file_input_state = jpype.JPackage('ambit2').core.io.FileInputState
```
## Generating Tautomers
Based on what I understood from their [example code](https://github.com/ideaconsult/apps-ambit/blob/master/tautomers-example/src/main/java/net/idea/example/ambit/tautomers/TautomerWizard.java), the following should be done:

* Create an instance of ```ambit2.tautomers.TautomerManager```, say **tautomerManager**
* Set flags for customization (optional; see next section)
* Create a ```org.openscience.cdk.interfaces.IAtomContainer``` object that will contain the molecule structure, say 'mol'.
    * This could be done using a SMILES string using a ```org.openscience.cdk.smiles.SmilesParser``` instance (see [SmilesParser](https://cdk.github.io/cdk/1.5/docs/api/org/openscience/cdk/smiles/SmilesParser.html)). One could call **SmilesParser#parseSmiles** method from this instance.
* tautomerManager.setStructure(mol)
* Use one of the three algorithms to generate tautomers:
    * Pure combinatorial method using tautomerManager.generateTautomers()
    * Improved combinatorial method using tautomerManager.generateTautomers_ImprovedCombApproach()
    * IA-DFS using tautomerManager.generateTautomersIncrementally()
* These return a ```List<IAtomContainer>``` (a Java object)
### Flags:
TODO
## Problems:
### Creating instances of Java Interfaces
For some purpose, I had to do something along the lines of
```python
silentChemObjectBuilder = jpype.JPackage("org").openscience.cdk.silent.SilentChemObjectBuilder.getInstance()
```
And it threw a ```TypeError: Cannot create Interface instances``` because **SilentChemObjectBuilder** is a Java [Interface](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/concepts/interface.html) and you cannot instantiate it this way. A [workaround](https://jpype.readthedocs.io/en/latest/userguide.html#case-3-interactive-java) has been suggested in the user guide. Nevertheless, I'm still having some trouble myself.
### Accessing subclasses
```python
GAT = jpype.JPackage("ambit2").tautomers.TautomerConst.GAT
```
throws ```AttributeError: type object 'ambit2.tautomers.TautomerConst' has no attribute 'GAT'```

Commit message:

Flags for configuring the tautomer generation

main/Using_Ambit.md, after:

# Using Ambit in Python
Ambit-tautomer (which builds on [CDK](https://cdk.github.io/)), is a Java library available as a .jar file as well as a [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/) artifact. We need a way to use the Java library in Python and I've found [JPype](https://jpype.readthedocs.io/) to be able to provide what we need.
I haven't thought about fetching the dependencies using Maven itself yet, so the trick right now is to download .jar files. I'm accessing the packages inside the .jar files using JPype.
## Install JPype
Using conda:
```bash
conda install -c conda-forge jpype1
```
If this doesn't work for you, you can find other techniques at [the installation page](https://jpype.readthedocs.io/en/latest/install.html)
## Download the .jar files
Download the .jar files of [Ambit-tautomer](https://sourceforge.net/projects/ambit/files/Ambit2/AMBIT%20applications/tautomers/ambit-tautomers-2.0.0-SNAPSHOT.jar/download) and [CDK](https://github.com/cdk/cdk/releases/tag/cdk-2.3) and place them in the libs/ folder

## Launching the JVM using JPype
A more detailed user guide is available at the [official website](https://jpype.readthedocs.io/en/latest/userguide.html). For our purposes, just do the following: 

Add these imports at the top
```python
# Import the JPype module
import jpype
# Allows Java modules to be imported
import jpype.imports
# Import all standard Java types into the global scope
from jpype.types import *
```

Initialize the JVM and add the .jar files to the classpath

```python
jpype.startJVM(classpath=['libs/ambit-tautomers-2.0.0-SNAPSHOT.jar', 'libs/cdk-2.3.jar'], 
                convertStrings=False)
```

## Accessing Java packages
The native JDK packages should be accessible directly as
```python
from java.lang import System
```
But if you want to access the contents of a .jar file (e.g. the Ambit and CDK .jar files in our case), you need to access it using a method in JPype:

For instance, to import ```ambit2.core.io.FileInputState```, you will have to do
```python
file_input_state = jpype.JPackage('ambit2').core.io.FileInputState
```
## Generating Tautomers
Based on what I understood from their [example code](https://github.com/ideaconsult/apps-ambit/blob/master/tautomers-example/src/main/java/net/idea/example/ambit/tautomers/TautomerWizard.java), the following should be done:

* Create an instance of ```ambit2.tautomers.TautomerManager```, say **tautomerManager**
* Set flags for customization (optional; see next section)
* Create a ```org.openscience.cdk.interfaces.IAtomContainer``` object that will contain the molecule structure, say 'mol'.
    * This could be done using a SMILES string using a ```org.openscience.cdk.smiles.SmilesParser``` instance (see [SmilesParser](https://cdk.github.io/cdk/1.5/docs/api/org/openscience/cdk/smiles/SmilesParser.html)). One could call **SmilesParser#parseSmiles** method from this instance.
* tautomerManager.setStructure(mol)
* Use one of the three algorithms to generate tautomers:
    * Pure combinatorial method using tautomerManager.generateTautomers()
    * Improved combinatorial method using tautomerManager.generateTautomers_ImprovedCombApproach()
    * IA-DFS using tautomerManager.generateTautomersIncrementally()
* These return a ```List<IAtomContainer>``` (a Java object)
### Flags:
One can customize a lot of things, such as the rules that we want Ambit to use, the algorithm we want it to utilize, etc. I have added methods (untested) for customizing the following in ambit_tautomer.py:
* set maximum number of back tracks
* set maximum number of subcombinations (I have to read what this means)
* toggle the use of (1,3), (1,5) and (1,7) shift tautomerisation rules
* set a rule number limit
* there's a **rule selection** possibility.
* MoleculeFilter (I have to read how this works)
* apply duplication checks (by isomorphism or InChI; I have to see when these are done)

## Problems and Resolutions:
### Package not callable
If you get an error like
```bash
raise TypeError("Package {0} is not Callable".format(self._name))
TypeError: Package <Java package org.openscience.cdk.tautomers.TautomerConst._name> is not Callable
```
despite the fact that the object you're referring to is a Java class or method, then it's likely because it couldn't locate the file properly. Check if the classpath of the libraries is correct (relative to the directory you're working in, it should allow accessing those directories), and check if the package names are correct and/or if there are any typos). 

### Creating instances of Java Interfaces
If you were doing something like
```python
silentChemObjectBuilder = jpype.JPackage("org").openscience.cdk.silent.SilentChemObjectBuilder()
```
and it threw a ```TypeError: Cannot create Interface instances``` then that's because **SilentChemObjectBuilder** is a Java [Interface](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/concepts/interface.html) and you cannot instantiate it this way. A [workaround](https://jpype.readthedocs.io/en/latest/userguide.html#case-3-interactive-java) has been suggested in the user guide.
In the above case, there was an in-built method for creating an instance
```python
silentChemObjectBuilder = jpype.JPackage("org").openscience.cdk.silent.SilentChemObjectBuilder.getInstance()
```
### Accessing subclasses
```python
GAT = jpype.JPackage("ambit2").tautomers.TautomerConst.GAT
```
throws ```AttributeError: type object 'ambit2.tautomers.TautomerConst' has no attribute 'GAT'```

Resolution: #TODO
